	The first issue I encountered was in the Google Collab notebook where I had issues with the Craiyon AI model. I moved to the Perchance model where I ran into the issue of my images being saved as a .jpg instead of .png. I then remedied this by saving the images as .png. Next Everything worked as planned until I attempted to run the code in a command prompt in my own device as I did not have python installed. Next I tried to install python and did so. I was still running into the issue with being unable to find python, I assume the python download has a different naming convention and this is the reason why it is unable to run. Talking with my class mates I used py -m http.server 5000 in the terminal instead of python -m http.server 5000 and this seemed to work. Next I went into my browser and entered localhost:5000 where the PixPlot application worked! What information can I gather from these structures? We can certainly see a commonality between actual images from the 1919 Winnipeg General Strike, large amounts of people crowding the streets in a black and white image. What strikes me as odd is that in the generated images there is a distinctly militaristic element with people seemingly in marching formation and even flags lining the streets like in an authoritarian military parade. Perhaps the generation has been impacted by images of these authoritarian style marches and has attached that because they seem similar to the images of the actual strike in some way. The militancy of many of these generated images also harkens to the popular perception of the strike in parliament and elsewhere in Canada as a 'communist uprising', and the violence against them being justified because they are members of the communist enemy. Is this a troubling side effect? Or is this some meaning that I have ascribed to the generated images based on my knowledge and understanding of the event? 